---
layout: article
title: AE 624 - Hypersonic Flow Theory
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: department_elective ae-624
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: aerodynamics theory
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Viren Menezes
**Author**: Maharshi Pathak

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 236](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-236.html): Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Pre-requisite skills**:

**Course Content**:
1. General aspects of hypersonic flow
2. Derivations of pressure ratios, density ratios, temperature ratios across hypersonic shocks
3. Newtonian, modified Newtonian methods
4. Shock-boundary layer interactions
5. Stagnation point heat flux for hypersonic flow vehicles

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**:

- 1 quiz: 30%

- Midsem: 30%

- Endsem: 40%


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: No attendance required


---

**General funda**: Class notes are sufficient to score a good grade. Scoring a 10 requires effort as several MTechs also register for this course.


**Grading stats**:

| AA | 7  |
| AB | 6  |
| BB | 7  |
| BC | 10  |
| CC |  2 |
| CD |  1 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: There are no lecture slides for this course. Class notes are more than sufficient. Even if you miss some classes, it is easy to catch up as it is not a difficult course and consists mostly of formulae.

**Should you do this course?**: This is a formula-intensive course, i.e. 30% of the course consists of theory and the rest consists of formulae and their applications. Course content is relatively easy to grasp. It is very similar in structure to AE 236 and so if you liked the former, then I would recommend you to take this course.

---
