---
layout: article
title: AE 332 - Aircraft Design
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: third_year ae-332
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: design theory
---

# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Avijit Chatterjee
**Author**: Sakshi Dayal

**Pre-requisite courses**: AE 152

**Pre-requisite skills**: None

**Course Content**:
- Introduction to Aircraft Design: Three phases in aircraft design, Computer based aircraft design methodologies, differences between LTA and HTA aircraft, type of civil and military aircraft.
- Configuration and Layout: Types and comparison of wing, tail, fuselage, landing gear, wing-tail combinations, power plant (types, numbers, locations), unconventional aircraft configurations.
- Sizing and Constraint Analysis: Initial sizing, estimation of design gross weight, rubber engine sizing and fixed engine sizing, refined sizing method and constraint analysis.
- Estimation Methodologies: Lift and drag coefficient, design loads, component mass breakdown, acquisition cost, direct operating cost.
- Operational and Environmental Issues: Range-payload diagram, V-n diagram, noise and emission levels

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: 10 marks (attendance – biometric/app), 10 marks (Quiz 1), 30 marks (Mid-semester), 10 marks (Quiz 2), 40 marks (End-semester)

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 2/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Easy

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: Marks for attendance

---

**General funda**: Take notes during lecture and revise every single point said in the class. Nothing beyond lecture is asked in quizzes.
Quizzes seem easy, avoid silly mistakes. Don't overthink and go with your first intuition. Give graphs, explanation wherever applicable; don't miss out any point that you believe is related to the question in any manner. Write all the intermediate steps, because you won't be awarded marks if your final answer is wrong and intermediate calculations are missing.


**Grading stats**: AA-7, AB-9, BB-10, BC-12, CC and below-7


| AA | 7  |
| AB | 9  |
| BB | 10  |
| BC | 12 |
| CC and below | 7  |


**Professor's Teaching Style**: Pay due attention to what is discussed and told in the lecture, and take all the notes.

**Should you do this course?**: It is an easy course content-wise and the content is useful from the perspective of aerospace industry. Getting a high grade is tough, although scoring 7-8 grade is easy with moderate effort.

---


# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Hrishikesh Gadgil
**Author**: Sanskriti Bhansali

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 223](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-223.html): Thermodynamics and Propulsion and [AE 236](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-236.html): Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Pre-requisite skills**: A lot of course content is what has been taught in AE 240: Spaceflight Mechanics and AE 236: Compressible Fluid Mechanics

**Course Content**:
* Introduction, Various propulsive devices used for aerospace applications.
* Classifications of rockets: Electric, Nuclear and Chemical rockets, Applications of
rockets.
* Nozzle design: Flow through nozzle, Real nozzle, Equilibrium and frozen flow,
* Adaptive and non-adaptive nozzles. Thrust vector controls, Rocket performance
parameters.
* Solid propellant rockets, Grain compositions. Design of grain.
* Liquid propellant rockets, Injector design, cooling systems, Feed Systems:
* Pressure feed and turbo-pump feed system.
* Heat transfer problems in rocket engines.

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: No projects/assignments. There were two quizzes, a midsem and an endsem.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate


**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Between 3-6 hrs


**Attendance Policy**: Institute Policy (80%)

---

**General funda**: First half of the course is theory and may be boring, whereas second half is a lot of repetitive of previous courses. In general grading is very strict and no marks are awarded for numerical questions where final answers are not correct.

**Grading stats**: Only 3 students were awarded AA, 8- AB and 34 students got BB, BC, CC equally distributed.

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Lecture slides aren't provided, reference book needs to be used. Teaching pattern is a little boring and easy as well but then paper correction is really difficult.

**Should you do this course?**: Apart from being core course for Aerospace students, minor students can also take this up but isn't recommended since the content is repeat of previously taught courses.


---
