---
layout: article
title: AE 227 - Solid Mechanics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-227
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: structures theory assignments
---

# Autumn 2019
### Prof. Krishnendu Haldar
**Author**: Swarit Sood

**Pre-requisite courses**: None

**Pre-requisite skills**: Just some basic knowledge of python or matlab to plot the graphs of the equations involved in the assignments.


**Course Content**: Check ASC

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: There were no projects given. Around 8 assignments were given. They consisted of problems based on the application of concepts discussed in the class and were fairly easy to solve. Nothing out of the box was given.


**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: The professor used to take attendance in the class but I don't think there was DX grade enforced.


---

**General funda**: Class notes uploaded by the professor and review of the assignment problems are enough. Being attentive in the class will be a plus point.


**Grading stats**:

| AA | 7  |
| AB |  13 |
| BB |   10|
| BC |  13 |
| FR |  6 |

**Professor's Teaching Style**: Reading the lecture notes uploaded by the professor are enough for the course. But  attending the lectures will surely help as the professor explains the concepts nicely.



**Should you do this course?**: Recommended for those who are interested in structures and want to get their basics clear.

---
