---
layout: article
title: AE 234 - Aerospace Propulsion
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-234
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: propulsion theory
---

# Spring 2020
### Prof. Kowsik Bodi
**Author**: M Vishnu Sankar

**Pre-requisite courses**: [AE 223: Thermodynamics and Propulsion](/course_reviews/second_year/ae-223.html)

**Course Content**:
* Types of aircraft engines, piston-prop, RamJet, SCRamJet Turbo-(Jet,Shaft,Prop,Fan)
* Gas turbine cycles and cycle-based performance analysis
* Gas Turbine components
* Off-design performance

---

**Information about Projects/Assignments**: No assignments and projects were given, but the PG Version of this course has good set of computational assignments

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 3/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
(Apart from lectures and tutorials)
Less than 3 hrs

**Attendance Policy**: None

---

**General funda**: Solve tutorial problems. Go through example problems from the reference book "Saeed Farokhi - Aircraft Propulsion, Wiley(2014)".


**Grading stats**: S for everyone

**Professor's Teaching Style**:
The reference books are very much useful to cover the contents of the course. Ensure that you sit in the front bench to hear him out properly as his voice is fairly low. Make detailed notes as it helps you stay awake and it is very easy to lose track of the lecture as things won't be put up in the blackboard in a structured way. Ask doubts if you feel like losing track of the lecture as the prof appreciates interactive sessions.

Reference books:
1. "Aircraft propulsion" by Saeed Farokhi
2. "Understanding aerospace chemical propulsion" by H. S. Mukunda
3. "Jet Propulsion" by Nicholas Cumpsty

**Who should do this course**: Strongly recommended for anyone interested in aircraft propulsion. But the topics are widely related to gas turbine engines and not rocket engines.


---
