---
layout: article
title: AE 225 - Incompressible Fluid Mechanics
aside:
  toc: true
sidebar:
  nav: docs-en
categories: second_year ae-225
permalink: /course_reviews/:categories
tags: aerodynamics programming assignments theory
---
# Autumn 2020
### Prof. Prabhu Ramachandran

**Author**: Faisal Aziz

**Pre-requisite courses**: Not explicitly necessary but basic concepts of Lift and Drag from AE152 is recommended

**Pre-requisite skills**: It is good if you have a good knowledge of Python but sir provides ipython notebooks which give a good idea of what is to be done.

**Course Content**:

*Module 1 - Introduction*
Continuum, Particle theory, Knudsen number, etc
Thermodynamics and Fluids
Compressibility
Viscosity
Surface Tension
Hydrostatic Forces
Vapour Pressure

*Module 2 - Cartesian Tensors*
Index Notation
Matrix and Vector Transformations
Second Rank Tensors
Stress Tensor Properties
Gradient, Divergence, Curl
Integral Theorems

*Module 3 - Governing Equations*
Control Volume, Control Surface
Conservation Laws
Reynold's Transport Theorem
Streamlines, Streaklines, Pathlines (Theory + Programming)
Material Derivatives
Energy Equation
Bernoulli Equation
Euler's Equation

*Module 4 - Ideal Fluids*
Introduction, assumptions
Potential Flow (Theory + Programming)
Complex analysis (Theory + Programming)

*Module 5 - Viscous Flow*
Vector Potential (Theory + Programming)
Strain Tensor
Navier Stoke's Equation
Dimensional Analysis
Boundary Layer Theory
One dimensional solution to Navier Stoke's equation"

---

**Quizzes/Midsem/Endsem papers Difficulty**: 4/5

**Overall Course Difficulty**: Moderate

**Average Time Commitment**:
The course is a bit demanding in terms of understanding concepts. On an average 2-3 hours per week apart from lectures and tutorials is required. Although this number may increase during programing assignments if someone is not so comfortable with programming

**Attendance Policy**: Attendance is not compulsory usually. Although if the number of students in the class fall short overtime, Professor may assign 5% weightage to attendance

---

**General funda**: 
Take part in the discusiions and solve the tutorial questions uploaded in the sessions. The programming assignments are quite enjoyable and carry an appreciable weightage. Solve the assignments sincerely.

**Feedback on lectures**:
The lectures are quite interactive and discussive in nature. Prof Prabhu gives clicker questions in the class based on the lecture videos uploaded for the week. Then the solutions to each of the questions are discussed interactively with the students. The way of teaching is quite good. 

**Who should do this course**: Someone who is interested in Aerodynamics and Propulsion

---